>> It is very difficult for
some reason to obtain permission
to treat patients in
the United States.
I think this country has the
finest bureaucratic regulations
in the world, and the other
countries are way behind.
Here, the patient has to
go through very difficult
bureaucratic process, which
usually, most of the patients
will not be able to go
through because they
die during the process.
For some reason, they don't
want to have cure of cancer.
>> My name is
Sergeant Rick Schiff.
I'm an 11-year veteran of
the San Francisco Police
Department.
I hold the department's highest
Medal of Honor for Bravery.
That used to mean a lot
more to me than it does now.
What I'd like to talk
to you about today
is my now
seven-year-old daughter.
This is an identical twin.
Her sister is now dead.
Her sister, when she
was four years old,
Kristen, developed a highly
malignant brain tumor
that had spread throughout
her spine and her brain.
The doctors told us that
we had really two options--
take her home and let
her die, or bring her
in for massive dosages of chemo
and radiation simultaneously.
In either event, she
was going to die.
They were quite certain
of that, and very quickly.
Believing her only chance
to be the standard route,
we gave her the
chemo and radiation.
It burned her skull so bad
she had second degree burns,
and her hair never came back.
To change her diapers, we
had to wear rubber gloves
because her urine was so
toxic, and it burned her.
At the end of six
months, miraculously,
she survived the
standard treatment,
although there was a high
expectation she wouldn't.
She still had cancer.
We were told, sorry, we've
done everything we can.
Now she's going to die, probably
within a couple of months.
My wife and I, choosing not to
accept that, started reading.
The first book I picked
up, the third chapter,
discussed Dr. Burzynski.
As you may guess, I have
some expertise in fraud.
In fact, I'm quite
certain there are
enough attorneys in the room
that could be voir dired
as an expert in fraud.
And I conducted my
own investigation.
I've no doubt the
man is not a fraud.
I have no doubt
that he does what
he does out of earnest belief
that his medicine works.
And now you're in a position
to judge for yourselves
whether it works or not.
But it's well-established by
the FDA that it's nontoxic.
18 months later,
we took my daughter
off the antineoplaston.
She had not died.
She had no signs of tumor.
She remained free for
18 months of cancer.
Within a month, the cancer
was widespread in her brain.
We put her back on
Burzynski's, by the way,
at the objections
of our doctors,
for some reason felt
that it had failed her.
We put her back on.
Within nine weeks, the
tumor was completely gone.
She died last July of
neurological necrosis.
Her brain fell apart
from the radiation.
The autopsy showed that she
was completely cancer free.
Out of 52 cases of that disease
ever, no one died cancer free.
Just Krissy.
So she didn't die of
a terminal illness.
She died of my inability
to care for her properly,
and she died from bad advice.
She died because there's a
government institution that
disseminates false information
and is not looking out
for the welfare of the people.
You know, ladies and gentlemen,
I swore an oath 11 years ago,
and I think most
of us in this room
swore it at one time or another
to uphold the Constitution.
It says "life" right
in the beginning.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I first heard of Dr.
Burzynski back in the late
1980s, when he was in a battle
with the Texas Medical Board
and the FDA regarding his
innovative approach to cancer.
I wasn't surprised by that.
Anyone who's
innovative in medicine
creates waves in
the medical system.
However, in his case,
I was continually
surprised that they didn't
put him out of business.
I kept hearing about him.
So in the mid-1990s,
I said Dr. Burzynski,
I want to come down
to visit your clinic
and find out what you're doing.
It's very new to me.
When I arrived, he had seven
charts ready for me to review
that had been reviewed by the
National Cancer Institute, who
also made site visits
the year before.
The National Cancer
Institute reported
that these seven patients were
either in complete remission,
or there was
substantial improvement.
I was astounded.
Dr. Burzynski had MRIs
of brain tumor none
to be universally fatal
that had simply disappeared.
A Polish native named
Stanislaw Burzynski attended
Lublin Medical University,
where he graduated first
in his class at age
24, and then received
his PhD in biochemistry
the following year.
While undergoing his
research to acquire his PhD,
Dr. Burzynski made a
profound discovery.
He found a strain of peptides
in human blood and urine
that had never
before been recorded
in biomedical research.
As his curiosity in
these peptides evolved,
he made another
profound observation.
People who were
inflicted with cancer
seemed to lack these
newly discovered peptides
in both their blood
and urine, while those
who were healthy
and free of cancer
appeared to have an
abundance of these peptides.
Dr. Burzynski theorized that if
he could somehow provide a way
to chemically extract these
peptides from the blood
and urine of healthy
donors and administer
these peptides to
those with cancer,
perhaps it could be useful
in treating the disease.
>> Before I started, I asked
the lawyers for the advice.
Can I use experimental
treatment,
which was the treatment
with antineoplastons.
Can I use this in
my private practice?
And can I be involved
in cancer research,
simple as a private company?
>> Dr. Burzynski's attorneys
investigated both state
and federal law to find out if
it was legal for him to start
his own biomedical research
company making Antineoplastons
and administering them to his
patients within his private
practice.
They found that according
to both the Texas
State and federal law, the
use of any drug or new drug
can be used to meet the
immediate needs of the patients
of a licensed
doctor, particularly
when there is no other
available option for them.
The law stated that
such activity was not
governed at the time by the
Texas Food, Drug, and Cosmetic
Act, and is not otherwise
unlawful under the laws
of the state of Texas.
However, Dr. Burzynski
would not be legally allowed
to introduce or
deliver Antineoplastons
into interstate
commerce, which means
he had to keep his activities
only within the state of Texas
to avoid breaking
any federal laws.
As long as he did
this, his actions
were not within the regulatory
authority of the FDA.
However, once word began to
spread that Dr. Burzynski was
successfully treating
what was once considered
terminal incurable
cancer patients,
people began traveling
from all over the country
to receive
antineoplaston treatment.
>> We're talking with
Dr. Stanislaw Burzynski,
who is an M.D. and a PhD has
done an experimental work
in the area of cancer, and
has come up with some very
interesting studies, which have
been backed up by about four
and a half years
of investigation.
We've had two
patients who appear
to be in differing
states of remission.
Now, we started to
talk a little bit
about the medical community's
acceptance of all this.
How is your research funded?
>> Initially, my research was
funded from National Cancer
Institute and from Baylor
College of Medicine.
After I decided to
open my laboratory,
the only funds available for new
loans from the banks, patients
fees, and payments from
the insurance companies.
>> Could you stand for
just a minute, Dr. Gardner.
This is Dr. Harold Gardner.
Now, is there
anything about this
that you find controversial?
I mean, his treatment.
Does it have a good scientific
background, hypothesis,
and really controlled
studies behind it?
>> Yes, as the science of
investigation goes, Dr.
Burzynski's studies have
been quite professional,
certainly as creditable
as most at Wayne State
and the University of Michigan
and others which I'm tied
to directly.
The controversy is less in his
approach on a therapy basis
than it is his approach
organizationally.
And much of the medical
and hospital industry
operates as a very
closed shop, and if you
have ideas that might
in one way or another
jeopardize that economic
base, that you fall
into disfavor very quickly.
>> That is an incredible
statement that you've just
made.
>> And I've been involved
with several patients who have
chosen options in
Europe and in Canada.
And those options are not
available in this country
because of economic and
organizational reasons,
not because of
scientific reasons.
>> Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
>> For a long time, I didn't
have any contact with Texas
Board of Medical Examiners,
until around 1984,
some of my patients told me
that they were approached
by the agents sent to them
from Texas Board of Medical
Examiners who were trying
to convince them to file
complaints against me.
So this was shocking to me.
And what is surprising is that
they are using the state money,
the taxpayers' money, to
travel a long distance,
like from Houston to California,
to convince our patients
to go to California to
file complaints against me.
This was completely irrational.
But nothing else
happened at that time,
until I met, by coincidence, the
vice president of MD Anderson
Cancer Center,
Dr. Hickey, that I
would have a problem this time
with Texas Board of Medical
Examiners.
And obviously, the
problems began.
And I was called to Teas
Board of Medical Examiners.
They began investigating me.
However, there were no
complaints from the patients.
The patients were happy.
We were taking patients who
were very advanced, for whom
there was nothing available, and
they were getting good results.
So apparently, there was no
justification for such action.
This was a very
unpleasant investigation.
They were trying to convince
me again to stop my research,
to stop treating patients.
After about two years
of going back and forth
and being called to
the board, finally they
proposed to me that I
should present to them
a number of cases of patients
who benefited from my practice.
And they informed me that
such medical records would
be a reviewed by
expert oncologist,
and if they are satisfied that
I am not harming patients,
that the patients are
benefiting from my activity,
then they would
leave me in peace.
I was very happy with this.
I believed that
Texas Board will do
objective review of our
result, and finally, they
will leave me alone,
because it has
amazing results in the treating
of very difficult cancer cases.
I supplied to them twice
as many medical records,
which showed without any doubt
great results in the cancer
treatment.
Incurable forms of cancer
completely disappearing,
with patients going
into complete remission.
The patients who
were cured, they're
living normal life after that.
>> After submitting these
cases to the medical board,
he didn't hear back from them,
leaving him to assume that
the board was satisfied and
would leave him in peace.
However, two years
later, the board
came back again pretended
that the cases he submitted
were not successful,
and claimed he
was violating a law
that didn't exist,
which was grounds for the board
to cancel, revoke, or suspend
his license.
>> It was a shock to me.
I believed in justice.
I believe in high
ethics of the board.
But this was just a lie.
>> The medical board had
no case against Burzynski,
which prompted the board to file
their first amended complaint
in 1990.
Still, the board
had no case, which
prompted them to file a second
amended complaint in 1992.
After about five years of this,
60 of Dr. Burzynski's patients
petitioned the board to
stop harassing their doctor.
The board then tried to ignore
these petitions by attempting
to strike them from the record.
Finally, in May of 1993,
this case went to trial.
>> I had never heard
of Dr. Burzynski.
I didn't know
anything about him.
I never was quite clear what
the board's problem was.
The board did not bring
any expert witnesses
to contest points that were
raised by Dr. Burzynski.
Now without an expert
witness to render
an opinion in certain areas,
I can't give any credence
to opinion raised by a laymen.
And Dr. Burzynski brought
in Dr. Nicholas Patronas.
>> Some of the most
dramatic testimony on Dr.
Burzynski's behalf came
from Dr. Nicholas Patronas,
a Georgetown University expert
who is a member of the National
Cancer Institute team
that analyzed seven of Dr.
Burzynski's cases.
>> The basic conclusion was that
in five of the patients with
brain tumors that were fairly
large, the tumor resolved,
disappeared.
It's amazing.
The fact that they
are leaving, it's
impressive and unbelievable.
>> He was quite a witness.
He said he had
never seen anything
like what Dr. Burzynski
was able to accomplish
with his antineoplastons
in brain cancer.
He had one young boy there
who had been treating.
He was about 12 at the hearing.
Strapping lad, a good-sized boy.
But when he was first
started on treatment
when he was about
four years old--
I think his name was Paul--
he was given up on by
his original doctor.
>> When Mary Michaels took
the stand on behalf of her son
Paul, she trained her eyes
on the state's attorney.
>> I mean, I have enough to
worry about when I go to bed
at night, about my
son and my family.
I don't need to worry
that this treatment is
going to be taken away.
>> What do you think
might happen if--
never mind.
Never mind.
I have no other questions.
>> For all I know, the
kid may still be alive.
>> The tumors will grow.
They will lose their vision.
They will be paralyzed,
and they will
die, because there's nothing
in the world which can be used
to save these patients' lives.
>> You intend to continue doing
just what you've been doing
until somebody is
able to stop you.
Is that not true?
>> I'm going to do what the
law will allow me to do, Mr.
[? Holcomb. ?] I do whatever is
necessary to bring my medicines
to approval in the United States
and everywhere in the world,
and bring you to justice for
causing the deaths of 200
patients.
And they will come back here to
haunt you until you are dead.
>> Are you threatening
me, Dr. Burzynski?
>> I'm not threatening you.
But that's what's going
to happen in the future.
>> Well, I think that's
something that remains to be
seen.
>> They weren't
real happy with me.
I could tell that from the
way they were talking to me
and asking questions.
Then they told me
after, they were
going to rewrite my
proposal for a decision
and take adverse action
against Dr. Burzynski.
And I said, I thought
that was rather foolish.
>> The state of Texas
wants Houston doctor,
Stanislaw Burzynski, to stop
treating his patients with
drugs he produces at his
own pharmaceutical plant.
The drugs called Antineoplastons
are nontoxic compounds
of proteins and
amino acids, often
lacking in cancer patients.
Even though the state
of Texas acknowledges
that the drugs may be helping
some who are terminally ill,
the state says the
drugs shouldn't be used.
This is the State Board of
Medical Examiners, which
licenses doctors in Texas.
This is the agency challenging
Dr. Burzynski in court.
One judge has already
told the board members
that they don't have a case.
>> All of this nonsense with
them now should disappear,
because they should realize
that I am right, OK?
They are fighting losing battle.
I am saving human lives, and
if they put me out of business,
then people will die.
>> This is the brain of an
8-year-old boy with a huge
tumor most thought
would kill him.
He used Dr. Burzynski's drug.
Images of his skull
taken six years later
show the tumor has
almost disappeared.
>> Dr. Bruce Cohen is the
Director of Neurologic Oncology
at the prestigious
Cleveland Clinic.
>> The only explanation
is that it's shrunk
because of the therapy
Paul has received.
>> He confirmed Dr.
Burzynski's results on Paul.
>> Seven years that we've had
Paul, and he's been healthy,
and I owe it to this man.
And there is no
way that I'd ever
be able to thank him enough
for what he's done for us.
>> Today, that boy Paul Michaels
and his anxious family sit
in the courtroom
with other patients.
>> Undeterred by
the 1993 ruling,
the Texas Medical Board took Dr.
Burzynski to a higher district
court.
Of course, this
time they knew they
couldn't raise any issues
about whether or not
his treatment was effective.
>> The Texas State Board
of Medical Examiners,
which has fought to suspend Dr.
Burzynski's license because his
treatments have never
been approved, says quote,
"the efficacy of antineoplastons
in the treatment of human
cancers is not of issue
in these proceedings.
>> It takes a bureaucrat
to come up with that idea,
because a layman, that would
really be the question.
>> Well, Dr. Burzynski has
won his latest round in court.
The medical examiner's
order was reversed.
But that is not expected to
be the end of his trouble
with the state of Texas.
>> The Texas Medical Board
took this case all the way
to the Texas State
Supreme Court,
leaving the Texas Medical
Board completely unsuccessful
in their efforts to remove
his medical license.
So if efficacy was not an
issue, and Dr. Burzynski
wasn't breaking
any laws, then why
would the Texas Medical
Board continue on
with this empty pursuit?
Well, it was
eventually realized,
even by the mainstream
press, that the Food and Drug
Administration had been
pressuring the Texas Medical
Board to continue trying to
take away Dr. Brzezinski's
medical license.
>> For this story, we wanted
to talk to the FDA about its
policies and procedures.
The agency did agree to talk
to us on background where
it wouldn't be quoted, but it
repeatedly refused our requests
for on-camera interviews.
>> While they were busy
pressuring the Texas State
Medical Board to
try to revoke Dr.
Burzynski's medical license,
they were even busier trying
to revoke Dr. Burzynski
completely from society
by trying to place
him in prison.
On March 12th, 1976, FDA Bureau
of Drugs Director Richard Crout
states in the
cancer letter, "When
anyone other than
large institutions
ask permission to
conduct clinical trials,
you want harsh regulations.
Sometimes we say it is
proper to hinder research.
And once these
guidelines were adopted,
the FDA would consider
itself bound by them."
In 1982, Krout states
again, "I never
have and never will approve
a new drug to an individual,
but only to a large
pharmaceutical firm
with unlimited finances."
And so the fiercest fight
in FDA history began.
>> Dr. Burzynski's dealings
with the FDA commenced in 1983.
At that point, the FDA
commenced a civil action
to try to close the clinic
and stop all patients
from receiving the medicine.
>> Before the judge in this
case had announced her ruling,
the FDA sends her a letter
warning her in advance,
"if this court declines to
grant the injunction sought
by the government, thus
permitting continued
manufacture and distribution
of antineoplastons,
the government would then be
obliged to pursue other less
efficient remedies, such
as actions for seizure,
also known as raiding
his clinic and home,
and condemnation of the drugs,"
also known as a propaganda
campaign, "or criminal
prosecution of individuals,"
also known as throwing
Dr. Burzynski in prison.
Regardless of these
threats from the FDA--
>> The judge in the case
basically said that he can
treat anybody he wants in Texas,
but he can't ship his medicine
in interstate commerce.
The FDA viewed that as a
failure and told Dr. Burzynski
at the time, his
attorneys at the time,
that they have other
ways to get him.
Let's talk about the other ways.
In 1985, the FDA
convened a grand jury
to hear evidence to try
to indict Dr. Burzynski.
In connection with that, they
had a raid of his clinic,
where they seized
200,000 pieces of paper,
including all of his medical
records of all patients.
A little difficult
to practice medicine
when you don't have
medical records.
>> Obviously, they came out,
and they confiscated all
of our medical records.
And took us about
12 years or 14 years
to recover these
medical records.
In the meantime,
we are permitted
to make copies of the medical
records in the office,
but it was also the neglect
of human well-being.
We are treating
very sick people.
They took medical records.
And we needed these
medical records
to really fight for the
lives of these patients,
but they took this away.
They didn't care
for these patients.
The patients could die.
They were not involved.
>> They presented the
evidence to the grand jury.
No indictment.
1986, they come back and seize
another 100,000 documents.
No indictment.
>> I just have real trouble in
knowing how much pain and what
people go through with cancer.
And since 1967,
you've been saying,
I can take care of that, and
people are going, forget it.
Don't pay any attention.
And you've gone outside the
country, and they say fine,
and here we say no?
Are we that backward, Doctor?
>> Yes.
>> What do you mean, yes?
Are we that backward?
[APPLAUSE]
>> Yes.
It's really unfortunate
that there's
a big gap between people's
pain and suffering,
and what the powers that
be are willing to accept
to give to be able to treat.
It's difficult for doctors to
belay 10, 12 years of training
and go against that, and
believe that some man,
some guy from Houston, has
come up with something.
>> Isn't part of your problem
that the treatment of cancer is
a very profitable industry
for a lot of companies,
and that your treatment
right now will eat into those
company's profits?
>> Bingo.
[APPLAUSE]
>> I think that there
are the people who give
the chemotherapy,
and people like that,
and the drug companies would
have a very good reason for not
helping you out.
>> I would disagree with that,
from the standpoint that,
as Dr. Burzynski's
pointed out himself,
the patients he's treating are
patients who are not currently
eligible for chemotherapy
or radiation.
If we were to find a new
drug that had a high cure
rate of cancer, it would
give us the opportunity
to treat many patients in
whom we don't have potentially
effective therapies now.
>> 1990, another grand jury,
either the second or the third.
They present more documents.
Dr. Burzynski
testifies extensively
before the grand jury.
No indictment.
1991 to 1993.
FDA investigates Dr. Burzynski.
We don't know if
evidence was presented
to another grand jury.
1994.
Another grand jury.
No indictment.
1995.
Another grand jury.
This grand jury started
in March of this year.
On March 25th, I believe,
it was Dr. Burzynski
along with a few of his
patients appeared on CBS show,
"This Morning."
>> Let me play devil's advocate.
Here you all, very
desperate folk,
had undergone some cancer
treatment, correct?
>> No.
>> None?
None at all for you?
>> I had no treatment.
>> Let me go ahead and
go after these guys.
They had undergone
some treatment.
Could it not have been that
the treatment that you received
prior to Dr.
Burzynski's treatment
was what, in fact,
really cured you?
>> Well, I'll jump on that.
No way, because the
recurrence I had
was in a brand new spot that
had not been involved before.
So if all the punishment that
I went through for the year
went out of my system,
and after it went out
of my system, all of a
sudden, a new tumor comes in,
how could that
first treatment have
helped the subsequent tumor?
>> Later that day, the
FDA came, another raid.
More patient documents.
More subpoenas.
>> We were flooded with calls
last Friday with people wanting
to know how to
get a hold of you.
They're going to see
this story, this morning
see that you've been
raided by the FDA,
and they're going to want
to know if you are for real,
or if the concerns of the
FDA may have something
to do with your treatments
and the viability
of your treatments.
>> Well, I don't think--
let me jump in here.
I don't think there's
really an issue,
as I mentioned, regarding
the safety of the drug.
And the FDA isn't
contending at this point
that the drug doesn't work.
The only issue is that
according to the FDA,
it has not been proven by
controlled clinical trials.
So at least in terms
of safety, the FDA
isn't saying that it's not
safe, and the FDA isn't even
saying that it doesn't work.
All right.
Right now, they're
just contesting--
or apparently,
they're contesting
whether Dr. Burzynski himself
has been shipping the medicine
out of state, which
in some respects
is quite ridiculous
since he has approval
to ship the medicine
out of state
to various cancer institutions
around the country.
He ships it out of the
country to various countries
because it's being
used in other places,
and he ships it
to individuals who
have been granted
permission by the FDA
to receive the medicine under
what's called a Compassionate
Use IMDs.
>> OK.
>> May, June, and July, more
witnesses testified before
the grand jury, more documents.
So we've had now four,
five, or six grand juries.
Let me talk about the
subpoena practices.
Most recently, the FDA has now
subpoenaed the medical records
of every patient
who has gone on TV
and told their story
about Dr. Burzynski.
We'll let the committee judge
what they think of that.
You talk about dissemination of
false information by the FDA.
1985, FDA tells anyone who--
calls inquiring
about Dr. Burzynski
that he's being
criminally investigated.
When the judge on the
case found out about that,
he issued a cease and desist
and a strong reprimand
against that.
The FDA now has
refined this tactic.
Instead of waiting for
people to call up the FDA,
what they've done is
subpoena all the records
from Dr. Burzynski about
his business associates
and all the researchers
around the world--
and there are many of
them who are researching
antineoplastons, his therapy.
Now what they're doing
is systematically
contacting everyone
who does business
with him, who may do
business with him,
and telling about the
grand jury investigation
subpoenaing documents.
I believe that they're
doing this in order
to make it more difficult
for him to do business.
I'd like the following questions
to be asked to the FDA.
How much money have they
spent in the last 10 years
to try to put Dr.
Burzynski out of business?
How many documents
can they subpoena?
And how many more grand
juries does he have to go to?
And why can't patients
who have advanced cancer
seek medical treatment
of their choice?
>> Upon the commencement of the
FDA's 1995 grand jury against
Dr. Burzynski, an oversight and
investigation subcommittee was
organized by Congressman
Joe Barton in an attempt
to intervene in the FDA's
relentless harassment of Dr.
Burzynski and his patients.
>> In my opinion, you have every
right to use the investigative
authority and the judicial
resources of the federal
government to the Justice
Department to convene a grand
jury.
That's very appropriate,
the first time, perhaps even
the second time.
It becomes questionable
the third time.
The fourth time and the
fifth time, it is not,
I think, an unlogical
conclusion to think
that the FDA has a vendetta
against Dr. Burzynski,
or wants to retaliate
for some reason.
Now that's my opinion.
How many grand
jury investigations
have to occur that result
in no finding of fault
before you as
commissioner of the FDA
would encourage those
within your organization
to cease and desist?
>> Mr. Chairman, how do you
know that there were no findings
of fault that were returned
from that grand jury?
>> There have been no
indictments returned.
>> Mr. Chairman, I've
asked counsel to comment,
but I don't think
those are the same--
as a matter of law, those
are the same things.
>> I'm baffled by the
splitting of hairs here.
>> I'm just trying to
understand the exchange between
the witness and the chairman.
>> What I understood the
chairman to say is that there
have been four grand
juries convened?
>> At least four.
>> I just am left, then, with
the rather strong inference
that if you convene four
separate grand juries
and there's no
indictment returned,
notwithstanding the
prosecutors tell us always that
it's possible to indict a
ham sandwich, that probably,
there's not much there.
>> Dozens of Dr. Burzynski's
patients who had traveled
to Washington, DC from all
corners of the United States
stood up and expressed
their outrage with the FDA
and Commissioner David Kessler.
>> The FDA has made a list and
decided who can live and who
will die.
I guess I didn't make that list.
>> I've had no chemotherapy.
I've had no radiation I
chose Dr. Burzynski instead,
after a lot of research
and a lot of searching.
I've been in
remission since 1989.
Dr. Kessler, I'm
not a statistic.
>> We're frustrated that our
rights, constitutional rights,
have been violated.
This has got to end.
My children are
asking me, Daddy,
what does the future hold?
My one daughter wrote a
letter to the president
of this country and said,
please don't pull the plug
on my daddy.
And that just broke my heart
and broke my wife's heart.
>> My husband is
a walking miracle.
16 months ago, the
doctors told us there's
nothing else they
can do, and he told
us to enjoy what little
life he has left.
Look at him.
He biked 32 miles after being
on Dr. Burzynski's treatment
for two months, and they're
saying we can't have it?
>> I have a report from
my family physician,
which tells how well I am doing.
My tumors are leaving my
body, and my condition
is improving every day.
Now the FDA is saying to me,
no, your doctor is a criminal?
He should be put in jail and
he needs to be shut down?
This is criminal.
>> I want the FDA to get out
of our lives and stay out
of our doctor-patient
relationship.
>> What the classical
conventional medicine had to do
for me was there nothing.
For me, the next thing
was the minister.
I did not want to
undergo chemotherapy,
which I had a new
name for, kill him
therapy, or any
type of radiation.
I was extremely lucky
I found Dr. Burzynski.
And I don't want the FDA
to take this right from me.
I came 18 years ago
from communist Romania,
and the tyrannous
dictator Ceausescu never
stopped a doctor from
treating anybody.
How can we have something like
this in the United States?
>> Barely a week after these
hearings, on November 20th,
1995, Dr. Stanislaw
Burzynski was indicted.
Burzynski was charged with 75
counts of violating federal law
and fraud.
If convicted,
Burzynski would face
a maximum of 290 years in
a federal prison and $18
and 1/2 million in fines,
not to mention what
would happen to his patients.
>> He is their last
chance for life,
but now the federal government
is issuing a death sentence
for the patients of
this cancer doctor.
>> On February 9, Houston court
judge, Sim Lake, ruled Dr.
Burzynski's treatments
have been quote,
"illegal under Texas and
federal law since 1984,"
and he ordered them stopped on
all but a handful of patients.
Then he put a stay on his own
order, a stay of execution.
>> I believe that most of these
300 people will die within
a short period of time if
the treatment is stopped.
>> In 1996, not only
did scores of Dr.
Burzynski's patients
return to Washington,
DC to protest his indictment,
but many of them testified
again, before another
congressional hearing headed
by Congressman Joe Barton.
>> Our first witness
is Mariann Kunnari.
Is that correct?
>> Yes, that's correct.
>> From Aurora, Minnesota.
>> This is Dustin
Kunnari, and he is on Dr.
Burzynski's
antineoplaston treatment.
This is my husband,
Jack Kunnari.
Now in February of 1994, our
lives were drastically changed.
My son Dustin was only two and
a half years old at the time.
He was diagnosed with a brain
tumor the size of a golf ball.
The surgeon removed 75% of his
tumor, and the remaining 25%
was diagnosed from a
biopsy as a malignant, very
aggressive, medulloblastoma
brain tumor, one of the most
deadly forms of brain cancer.
The doctors told us Dustin
had only a few months to live.
The first treatment offered
to us was radiation,
but the radiation doctor
told us at his young age,
Dustin would become a
vegetable, and it would only
extend his life for
maybe a few months.
The next doctor
wanted us to enroll
Dustin in an experimental
chemotherapy, which
was highly toxic.
The side effects would include
hearing loss, kidney and liver
damage, bladder, stunted
growth, and a possible leukemia.
One question I would
like to ask is, would you
do that to your child?
We weighed the harm these
experimental drugs would cause
against the fact that they
would not cure Dustin,
and decided not to subject
him to these drastic measures.
But an oncologist told us that
their opinion took precedence
over us as parents.
This put added stress to the
already stressful situation
we were in.
In April of 1994, we visited
Doctor Stanislaw Burzynski
in Houston.
Dr. Burzynski made
us no promises,
but said that he often had very
good results with brain tumors.
At worst, it would
not hurt Dustin,
and it offered the best hope
and a longer quality of life.
An MRI six weeks after we
started Doctor Burzynski's
treatment revealed no tumor.
We were very overjoyed.
Dustin continued
antineoplaston therapy,
and one year later, a tumor
1 inch by 1 inch in size
was found on the MRI.
That would be April of 1995.
Dr. Burzynski immediately
raised Dustin's dose
of antineoplastons.
There were still no harsh
side effects at all.
The next MRI in
September of 1995
revealed that the tumor had
almost disappeared again.
To this day, it
has not reappeared.
If you look at Dustin
right now, [CRYING],
he is a happy,
healthy four-year-old
who has outlived his prognosis.
There is no
traditional treatment
that would have kept him alive
with such good quality of life.
FDA commissioner
David Kessler loves
to grab headlines as a
man who loves children
so much he wants to protect them
from the ravages of smoking.
If Dr. Kessler loves
children so much,
why have he and his agencies
been trying so hard to cut off
my son's last hope for life.
Without this treatment,
my son will die.
>> This is a photo of Dustin
Kunnari at four years old
in 1996.
This is a photo of Dustin
Kunnari at 22 years
old in 2013, happily
married, and this
is a photo of Dustin
Kunnari today,
paying it forward by helping
to save the lives of others
as a firefighter and paramedic.
>> American Cancer patients
from now on will have faster
and easier access to
more promising therapies.
Here in a nutshell
is the importance
of each of the president and
the FDA's four proposals.
First, for patients
with refractory,
hard to treat cancer,
instead of requiring evidence
of clinical benefits
such as survival,
FDA will rely on
objective evidence
of partial response,
such as tumor shrinkage,
as an initial
basis for approval.
This will allow us to rely
on smaller, shorter studies
for the initial approval
of cancer drugs.
The second proposal.
We will expedite
the availability
of promising medications
that had been approved
in certain other countries.
Third, we will include
representatives
of cancer patients in FDA's
Cancer Advisory Committees,
and thereby make sure that
their views are heard,
when it comes to recommending
approval or non-approval
of cancer drugs.
And forth, we will eliminate
unnecessary paperwork
that use to delay
or discourage cancer
research by noncommercial
clinical investigators.
I'd be happy to take
a few questions.
>> Yes, sir?
>> Will the FDA's initiatives
that you announced today
expedite the current review
of antineoplastons treatment?
>> The FDA's initiatives
will allow the agency to rely
on smaller trials,
fewer patients,
if there is evidence of partial
response in clinical trials.
I don't want to get into
any particular agent.
Except let me point out
that the information needs
to be part of clinical trials.
We will accept less
information upfront.
We're going to require
further study after approval,
because the science has matured.
But the important point
is that information
needs to be gathered
through scientific means
through clinical trials.
And I think that's a very
important, very important
point.
You can't just use an
agent here or there.
You have to use it as
part of a clinical trial
so we can get information
on whether the drug works.
>> Will patients who have
taken other forms of cancer
treatments, chemo, or
radiation treatments be allowed
to participate in trials
for antineoplastons?
>> The Agency has approved
trials for patients with
antineoplastons.
Yes.
>> What are antineoplastons
for the layman here?
>> Again, I don't want to focus
on any one particular cancer
compound.
They relate to
certain compounds that
are being used
and being promoted
by a physician in Texas.
We are committed to
providing expanded access
and availability to American
patients for any drug
that there's no reason
to believe may work.
>> They would not back
down in making sure
Burzynski's criminal
trial moved forward.
Federal prosecutors concede
that a cancer doctor
they were put on
trial here in January
for using an innovative
but unapproved drug
has been saving lives.
The prosecution
marks the first time
the FDA has tried to jail
a scientist for using
a drug on which he is conducting
FDA-authorized clinical trials.
In a pretrial motion, Assistant
US attorney Mike Clark
objected to a defense
request for the jury
to visit the chemical
plant where Dr. Burzynski
manufactures antineoplaston.
The jury visit request is
"a thinly veiled effort
to expose the jury to the
specter of Dr. Burzynski
in his act of saving lives."
"Whether antineoplaston does or
does not work is not an issue,
and the jury should not be
asked to decide the question.
He added that if the
issue comes up at trial,
it would be an
irrelevant, emotional,
prejudicial, and
misleading concern."
>> The issue of whether
antineoplastons work may not
even come up during the trial.
The judge says
that's not relevant.
But the defense contends
that's exactly the point,
that what was done in
developing the drug
and administering it
was done to save lives.
>> This trial cost the American
taxpayer $60 billion dollars
while costing Dr. Burzynski
over $2.2 million.
$700,000 of Burzynski's legal
defense was raised primarily
by Dr. Julian Whitaker
through his newsletter "Health
and Healing."
After Dr. Whitaker wrote of
the plight and injustice being
done to Dr.
Burzynski, his readers
sent in close to 18,000
checks in small donations
for Burzynski's legal defense.
>> The trial is expected
to last about two months.
The jury will then decide
whether Burzynski is
a fraud or a medical pioneer.
>> On March 4th, 1997,
due to a deadlocked jury,
the judge declared a mistrial.
And after saying the
government had not
presented sufficient
evidence, he
ordered that Dr. Burzynski
be acquitted of nearly half
of the 75 counts.
>> You voted to acquit?
>> To acquit.
Absolutely.
>> Not guilty.
>> I voted for acquittal.
>> I voted my mind.
In my heart--
>> I do not believe that
Dr. Burzynski is a criminal.
>> And I had voted to acquit.
>> But the FDA was
still not backing down.
They took Dr. Burzynski
to trial again.
Though after apparently
accepting the absurdity
of their case, on
May 19th, the FDA
suddenly dropped 40 of
the 41 remaining charges.
The FDA's facade in
trying to convince
the world that
Burzynski was a criminal
was completely unraveling.
Even the jurors, who voted
not guilty in the first case,
took time off of work
to join the patients'
protest in front
of the courthouse
during the second case.
>> I am appalled at the
Food and Drug Administration
and their actions.
>> We are today basically
to protest the witch hunt
that's going on by the FDA.
>> We have to stick together and
really support these patients
that are suffering,
not only healthwise,
but having to come down here to
make a stand against the FDA.
>> Please don't waste my money
abusing the system to make sure
that you maintain your power.
>> The jury spent about three
hours deliberating this house
of cards, leaving Burzynski
acquitted of the final charge.
>> Every one of Dr.
Burzynski's patients now,
every future of
Burzynski patient,
is and will be on
a clinical trial.
>> There are many patients
who would like to testify
on our behalf and convince the
jury and the judge that without
the treatment, they will die.
But the judge did not
admit any statements
which could show that the
treatment is effective.
The judge did not allow the
jury to visit our facility where
we produce medicine.
They were trying to keep
it away from the jury.
If this information would
be presented to the jurors,
then this trial would be
finished very quickly.
And that's what the jurors
told, because after the trial,
we talked to the jurors,
and they were shocked
that such information
about the treatment,
which is saving the
life of the patients,
was not presented to them.
And I was sick listening
to the lies of prosecutors
from US attorneys.
It was not necessary
for them to do.
They could tell the truth.
They represented
the biggest power.
But they still were
doing this all the time.
So they were trying
to do it a sneaky way.
And that's what is horrible.
That's what should be exposed,
because I think the United
States deserves better.
>> While all of this
was taking place,
Burzynski knew that the easiest
way to keep the government from
putting him out of business or
in prison was to partner with
an established
pharmaceutical company.
And interest was shown from
Japanese pharmaceutical
company, Chuo-ku and to the
Italian pharmaceutical company
Sigma-Tau.
But both deals
eventually evaporated,
likely due to the
rapport developed so far
between antineoplastons and
the FDA, being an issue indeed,
and were unable to
verify the likelihood
that they could openly and
effectively work with the FDA.
Then by 1990, it seemed that
Burzynski's luck had finally
changed.
Berzinski had apparently
treated the sister-in-law
of the chairman and CEO
of a Elan Pharmaceuticals.
Elan enthusiastically
drafted a letter of intent,
stating they would
aggressively pursue
the filing of
necessary protocols
with the Food and
Drug Administration
for approval and marketing
of antineoplastons as quickly
as possible.
They soon negotiated financing,
licensing agreements,
and royalties.
In the midst of closing
this deal with Elan,
more good news emerged.
Dr. Dvorit Samid, a scientist
and medical professor
from Maryland, who Burzynski
had hired to further study
antineoplastons, managed
to present her work
at an oncology symposium
in Switzerland, which
landed her and antineoplastons
a cover story in a 1990
issue of "Oncology News."
>> In 1989, we retained Dr.
Dvorit Samid as our consultant.
Dr. Samid at that time, worked
at Uniformed Services Medical
School in Baltimore,
and later, she
moved to the National
Cancer Institute.
She did a lot of work with
antineoplaston ingredients.
Unfortunately, when the
pharmaceutical company
entered the picture, such
as Elan Pharmaceutical,
our consultant, Dr.
Samid, became too close.
She really became consultant
for Elan Pharmaceutical,
and she was working with
Elan from this time.
>> And suddenly, Elan
Pharmaceuticals terminated
their licensing agreement,
stating Elan has significant
doubt as to whether the
active substances comprising
of antineoplastons
have patent protection,
thereby rendering an
agreement meaningless.
>> Antineoplastons are
not just one chemical.
They have different
ingredients in antineoplastons.
One of these ingredients
was known before.
We discovered that is a
metabolite of antineoplaston,
and was known and
was available before.
So when we patented
our invention,
our lawyers told
us, look, you can't
patent this
particular ingredient
because it was known before.
OK.
So let's list it in your
patent, but don't patent this,
because you'll never
get patent for that.
OK?
But this is the least important
ingredient of antineoplastons.
>> While this was an
odd turn of events,
more good news
continued to pour in.
It was in October 1991
when Dr. Nicholas Patronas
led the National Cancer
Institute on their site
to visit, the very same site to
visit Dr. Patronas would later
base his testimony when
defending Burzynski
against the Texas Medical Board.
This site visit not only
confirmed that antineoplastons
were curing what was previously
considered incurable brain
cancer, but it
garnered their interest
in conducting a confirmatory
trial under Division
of Cancer Treatment sponsorship
at the National Cancer
Institute.
These trials involved
most of their top experts,
including Dr. Michael Friedman,
the Associate Director
of the Cancer Therapy
Evaluation Program.
In a memo addressed
to his director,
Dr. Friedman wrote,
"I thought you
would be interested in this.
Antineoplastons
deserve a closer look.
It turns out that the agents
are well-defined, pure chemical
entities.
The human brain tumor
responses are real."
The National Cancer
Institute's Decision Network
then convened and
gave the green light
to conduct government-sponsored
clinical trials
of antineoplastons.
>> Initially, everybody was
really excited about it.
Everybody would like to proceed.
The people who
reviewed our results,
the experts from the NCI,
they did a very good job.
They were critical, of
course, but they were also
highly complimentary for
the way we treat patients
and the results we got.
It looks like everything should
open, and we move forward.
Suddenly, everything
came to a stop.
And then we found out
a few months later,
Elan had received permission
to do clinical trials
with this particular ingredient.
Ours was pushed back for
something like 40 years,
and then Elan was allowed to
proceed with this one suddenly.
>> When Elan terminated their
business deal with Burzynski,
they went behind his
back, recruited Dr.
Dvorit Samid and partnered with
the National Cancer Institute,
where Dr. Samid soon
became a section chief.
Elan then co-sponsored
laboratory research
and clinical trials testing
only this single ingredient
called phenylacetate,
the same chemical
that Burzynski was advised
he couldn't patent, and had
already proven to be quite
limited against cancer
as a single substance
as far back as 1980.
>> After the treatment of
a small number of patients,
we found that the activity
was quite limited.
That's why we decided to
abandon phenylacetate,
and we use the other
antineoplastons.
One of them contains
phenylacetate
as the second ingredient.
Phenylacetate alone has
very small activity.
It's not very effective.
>> In 1994, I started
working for Dvorit Samid.
She didn't let me know
that one of those compounds
is from Burzynski,
Dr. Burzynski.
You know, she just
said phenylacetate,
and she showed me
all the published
papers about phenylacetate
and its analogs
and their anticancer activity.
It was quite amazing in
the lab, because if you
find a compound that
has anticancer activity
and then you find
a bunch of analogs,
it's like you stumbled
in a pile of gold.
So people would think
and they'd say, you know,
"patents," "patents," "patents."
You know, that sort of thing.
With Dvorit, under
her leadership,
we found a lot of biological
activities in these compounds.
So it would have
anti-cancer activities.
So the scientists
at Johns Hopkins
tried to patent these compounds.
But of, course
Dvorit was working
with Elan Pharmaceutical
company at that time,
so those guys at Johns
Hopkins didn't have any chance
of patenting those compounds.
So you know, but
it's interesting
that she would
complain in the lab,
and saying that these guys
tried to go behind her back
and patent these compounds.
>> While Burzynski was facing
continuous harassment from
state and federal agencies, the
earliest phenylacetate studies
were published in April of
'92, authored by Dvorit Samid,
hosted by the National
Cancer Institute.
Burzynski sat in awe as he
witnessed the National Cancer
Institute recruit one
of his researchers,
push his research aside, and
begin to test phenylacetate
without him, reporting
"phenylacetate
is both effective in
inducing tumor cell
maturation and free of cytotoxic
and carcinogenic effects,
a combination that
warrants attention
to its potential use in
cancer intervention."
>> In 1995, in the lab,
I was still with Dvorit,
but I smelled fishy.
Something is not right.
The first paper Dvorit
published about phenylacetate,
if you look at the
methodology section,
there's a BRI abbreviation.
She got materials from
Burzynski Research Institute,
Houston, Texas.
But it didn't say Burzynski
Research Institute.
For us as scientists,
it's a funny practice.
>> Burzynski's name failed to
appear in the acknowledgements
or any of the references
listed in this report.
Burzynski knew these
tests would fail,
since he had already proven
this in his own laboratory 12
years before.
Abandoned by the National
Cancer Institute,
he sat powerless
on the sidelines
as the attempted
hijacking of his discovery
unfolded before his eyes, ending
in the hideous trainwreck he
warned them it would.
The National Cancer
Institute, Elan, and Dr. Samid
spent over four years
and tens of millions
of dollars testing
phenylacetate.
>> Phenylacetate,
really by itself,
has very little clinical effect.
>> The SEI or Elan could not
use the other ingredients
of antineoplastons because they
were covered by the patents
owned by me.
They were trying to
commercialize this,
but without the
other ingredients,
they couldn't do much with this.
This needed to be given in
conjunction with the others.
>> While coming to
terms with this reality,
the National Cancer
Institute decided to honor
the government-sponsored
clinical trials
of antineoplastons they had
initially promised Burzynski
in 1991.
>> These trials have been
conducted at the Mayo Clinic
in Minnesota and the
Sloan-Kettering Hospital in New
York.
Currently, there are only
eight patients enrolled.
>> I'm very
dissatisfied with that,
because our desire is to
achieve the proper enrollment
in as quickly a manner as we
can in order to really test this
hypothesis.
>> Friedman blamed Burzynski
for this slow motion,
saying Burzynski restricted
admissions to the trials too
stringently.
To speed things up, admissions
standards for the trials
have been lowered
to bring in patients
in worse physical condition,
this over Dr. Burzynski's
strenuous objections.
>> They got the idea that the
main interest is to let this
patient die rapidly and make
sure the treatment would never
work.
>> Dr. Burzynski has threatened
legal action to halt these new
admissions, and NCI has
suspended recruiting,
leaving the trials with
just those scientifically
unsatisfactory eight patients.
Meanwhile, both the FDA
and the Texas Medical Board
are still trying
to stop Burzynski.
>> On May 8 of '95, less
than two weeks before this
broadcast, the National Cancer
Institute issued an internal
memo to all of those involved
in the antineoplaston trials.
For the record, the clinical
trials monitoring service
has been instructed not to
send any antineoplastons
clinical trial data
to Dr. Burzynski,
the Burzynski Research
Institute, or anyone inquiring
about the antineoplastons
clinical trials.
Any inquiries that may be
related to the trials or Dr.
Burzynski are to be referred
to the Associate Director, Dr.
Michael Friedman.
Friedman then taunts Burzynski.
"I must convey my
deep pessimism.
We are in no way obligated
to obtain your consent.
Your insistence on dictating
the manner in which we conduct
or review these
clinical trials is
both presumptuous
and inappropriate.
The future of these trials
rests entirely with the NCI,
since our primary obligation
is to the American public."
Burzynski responds.
"Your letter of June
6 conveys pessimism.
My letter conveys outrage.
Patients were admitted
against admission criteria.
Their treatment
was discontinued,
and their lives were jeopardized
for frivolous reasons.
In spite of your
promise, we never
received any detailed
data on these patients.
There must be a
reason why you are
afraid to provide us
with complete copies
of medical records.
>> It took us at least half
a year before we force NCI
to release some of
this information to us.
And then we found that they
severely violated protocol.
They did not comply to
always the protocol.
On top of that,
patients were forced
to stop the treatment of
antineoplastons because
of massive fluid retention.
Did
And this is something which we
don't see with antineoplastons.
Typical with antineoplastons
is dehydration,
which means elimination
of the fluids.
The patients are losing a
lot of fluids to the point
that they have to drink
a lot of extra fluids.
We don't see increased
fluid retention.
I was curious why
this could happen.
I knew that the
patients were receiving
a lot of intravenous fluid.
But then, we learn
that because the fluid
which they were receiving
were not antineoplastons.
In October of 1995, the National
Cancer Institute's Cancer
Information Service
issued a public statement
for anyone inquiring about
their clinical trials
of antineoplastons.
In it, they stated "because
these studies were closed prior
to completion, no
conclusions can
be made about the
effectiveness or toxicity
of antineoplastons."
To their credit, and according
to the scientific standards set
by the National
Cancer Institute,
this was indeed the truth.
However, four years after
these trials were closed
and two years after
Burzynski defeated the FDA
and won his freedom, the
National Cancer Institute just
couldn't leave well
enough alone and decided
to vindictively publish
these scientifically invalid
antineoplastons trials in
the peer-reviewed medical
literature.
In it, they described how
nine patients were treated
and no patient demonstrated
tumor regression.
However, whoever was responsible
for publishing this report was
apparently careless
enough to also include
the antineoplastons
concentrations
detected in the blood of the
nine patients during treatment.
>> We compared this to the data
which we have in our studies.
We found that they were
severely diluting the medicine,
and this was why the
patient had fluid overload.
Antineoplaston AS2-1
consists of two ingredients,
which is called phenylacetate
and phenylacetylglutamine,
and about 2.7 lower
level of phenylacetate
in patients' blood compared to
what we see in our patients who
receive successful treatment.
Phenylacetylglutamine, there
is about 36 times lower level
in patients' blood
compared to what
we see in our patients
given the right dosage
of antineoplastons.
And the concentrations of
phenylacetylisoglutamine,
one of the main ingredients
of antineoplaston A10
were close to 170
times lower than what
we see in the treatment of
patients with antineoplastons.
And that's what we found
from the patients' husbands
or the patients themselves.
That's what they
were doing good.
So this was horrible.
OK?
This was like a criminal act.
They should be prosecuted for
that, because obviously, they
knew what they were
doing, and they
knew that these
patients have no change
to respond to any treatment.
They are going to die.
And that's what happened.
After we realized
what they do, we
decided to force them to
stop the clinical trials.
And since then, obviously,
National Cancer Institute
hates us, OK?
They do whatever they can.
They do not cooperate
with us anymore.
In the past, when NCI
or its assigned entity
is conducting an
alternative cancer therapy,
they always altered
the protocol and let it
fail to discredit the therapy.
But this time, the
pharmacokinetic data
shows that they
didn't do it right.
And most scientists would
not look at it carefully,
because "papa is
telling you something,
and you don't question him."
>> After the National Cancer
Institute intentionally
violated all protocols of their
own antineoplaston trials,
and after all state and
federal agencies had failed
in their 14-year campaign to
remove Burzynski from society,
after all of the dust settled, a
profound truth began to emerge.
It was October 4th, 1991 that
America's National Cancer
Institute hosted their site
visit to Burzynski's clinic
and verified for themselves
that anti-tumor activity was
documented by the use
of antineoplastons.
17 days later, on
October 21st, 1991,
the United States of
America, as represented
by the Department of
Health and Human Services
and Dr. Dvorit
Samid, filed a patent
for antineoplastons AS2-1.
They even had the
audacity to include
Burzynski as a reference.
"The invention described herein
may be manufactured, used,
and licensed by or
for the government
for governmental purposes."
At the time, Burzynski had
no idea this had happened,
but did have his suspicions
when they began to openly test
phenylacetate without him, and
the National Cancer Institute
knew it.
In an April '93 NCI
memo distributed
to those involved
with Burzynski,
they state their concerns.
"Political issues
are a real concern.
Congressman Bedell
is concerned we
are taking the antineoplastons
away from Burzynski.
Burzynski has patents
on antineoplastons.
Since phenyacetic
acid, or phenylacetate,
may be the active component
in antineoplastons,
our involvement has
become an issue.
Five months later,
the United States
of America and Dr.
Dvorit Samid filed
their second extended
patent on antineoplastons.
And guess who else was in it?
In March of the
following year, America
files its most extensive updated
antineoplaston patent to date,
spanning 111 pages.
Seven months later,
they file a fourth one.
June 6, 1995, the
United States government
has a field day filing
their fifth, sixth,
seventh, and eighth extended
patent on antineoplastons.
The following day, America
files its ninth, 10th,
and the 11th extended
antineoplaston patent.
And a couple of months after
the 11th patent was filed,
Dr. Michael Friedman leaves his
position at the National Cancer
Institute and becomes
Deputy Commissioner
of Operations for the Food
and Drug Administration
working directly under
Dr. David Kessler.
And by November of that
year, after a decade
of failed grand juries,
the United States
of America's Food and
Drug Administration
finally manages to
indict Dr. Burzynski.
One month into
America's criminal trial
against Burzynski, America's
first patent on antineoplaston
AS2-1 is approved.
A month after America
fails in their second trial
against Burzynski, their
second and third antineoplaston
patents are approved.
Over the course of
the next three years,
the United States Patent Office
approves all 11 copycat patents
on antineoplastons AS2-1.
>> And that's enough.
All of this was done based
on the fact that the United
States, which is the
National Institute of Health,
together with pharmaceutical
companies such as Elan
Pharmaceuticals, were trying
simply to steal my invention.
That's what they wanted.
It's not that we had successful
visits from the National Cancer
Institute in which
they determined
that this treatment
works great, and they
decided that we should
go through Phase II
clinical trials, which would
be responsible by them.
No.
This gave the idea of
some higher-ups at FDA
to conspire with
pharmaceutical company
so that they can steal the
invention from me and get it,
because it was good, OK?
So that's how it started, OK?
And then they knew that
if I was still free,
they won't be able to do it.
Because they knew that
if I would sue them,
they wouldn't have
a chance in court,
because we have
our patents before.
OK?
So that's why the
attempts from them
to wipe me out financially,
to put me to prison,
to attack me from every
possible angle, the FDA, which
is federal government,
state government, to be
able to steal my invention.
OK?
That's the real thing from
the National Cancer Institute
and Elan pharmaceuticals.
But they failed.
We survived, and
we move forward.
>> These patents are full
of useful information.
Aside from noticing their
blatant infringement,
compositions and methods
for treating and preventing
cancer using the distribution
of antineoplastons AS1-2
ingredients, they
enthusiastically
state that "neoplastic
conditions treatable
by this method include
neuroblastoma, leukemia,
myelodisplasia, acute glioma,
prostate cancer, breast cancer,
melanoma, lung cancer,
medulloblastoma,
and lymphoma" to name a few.
They also point out how
antineoplastons can also be
used as a cancer preventative.
However, the most
revealing piece
of information found
on these patents
is where they state
"current approaches
to combat cancer rely primarily
on the use of chemicals
and radiation, which are
themselves carcinogenic and may
promote recurrences
and the development
of metastatic disease."
Let's read that one
again, shall we?
Current approaches
to combat cancer
rely primarily on the use
of chemicals and radiation,
which are themselves
carcinogenic
and may promote recurrences
and the development
of metastatic disease."
>> They sometimes have a creed.
It's to separate medicine
from the medicine man.
And of course, these higher up
at NCI or whatever, they think,
hey, guys we have been
doing this for years.
We know what's going on.
So they think,
well, we know what's
going on with phenylacetate
phenylacetylglutamine.
If you can outsmart
the medicine man,
you can cut a piece
of a pie for yourself.
That's the name of the game if
you cannot be the first one.
If you can be the second one and
be bigger than the first one.
Steal.
Why not?
That's the mentality.
You know, under capitalist
sun, there's nothing sacred.
Money talks.
>> The smear campaign against
us continues from good doctors,
from American
Medical Association,
from American Cancer Society,
despite the fact it should stop
a long time ago.
>> What do you mean
by this plaston study?
What is that?
>> Antineoplastons are peptides
which I discovered which can
stimulate genes
which fight cancer,
and which can decrease the
activity of the genes which
cause cancer.
These are molecular switches.
>> You published that?
>> Yes.
We published.
I published about 300 articles.
I presented numerous
at tumor conferences.
>> That seems revolutionary.
Do you discount that?
>> I've known of
what he's been doing.
And I think the work
that he's doing,
there's no scientific evidence
that it provides any benefit
for cancer patients.
>> Are you discounting
all the work he does?
>> Yes.
He also states that there
is no complications or very
little complications
in his treatment.
And I've actually had one
patient that went to him
and had the treatment
and almost died.
>> Four years
after my diagnosis,
I had run into one of the
neuro-oncologists I met with
and told him that I had gone to
Dr. Burzynski and I was cured.
And he kind of wrote it off.
I was very excited to
tell him that I was cured,
and he really burst
my bubble about it,
so it was somewhat
depressing for me.
>> You have an amazing story
of survival sitting right next
to you, a young woman
named Jodi Gold.
Jodi, I understand
that you actually
had a very advanced malignant
brain tumor diagnosed right
before you turned 32 years old.
And here you are with us today.
>> Exactly.
And I'm actually here today
because I participated
in a clinical trial.
>> I don't know why Dr. Black
is not telling the truth.
We conducted 12 Phase II
clinical trials and strict FDA
supervision in every
one of these trials.
We have objective
responsibility.
We proved the treatment works.
The treatment can cure
incurable brain tumors.
The patients can live not only
the five years tumor, but over
10 years tumor free,
from the types of tumors
chemotherapy can do
absolutely nothing.
This is well-documented.
This was reviewed by the top
specialists in the United
States.
But it was never
reviewed by Dr. Black.
He didn't agree with even
a single case did by us.
Why is that?
>> Why are you not open--
>> We treated patients who Dr.
Black advised should not come
to us 11 years ago with
incurable brain tumors.
Her tumor was gone
in two months.
Here it is now 11 years
later, in perfect health,
living here in LA.
And Dr. Black told
her, "you will
be wasting time and money
going to Dr. Burzynski."
Why are you doing
this, Dr. Black?
>> Why are you not open to this?
>> Well, actually, I'm open
to anything that would benefit
my patients.
>> The doctors I know and
the clinicians I know,
these people are evangelical.
I mean, they are hugely
vested and invested
in doing what they believe is
very important and good work.
It helps them get up in
the morning to go to work.
So folks who are invested
in that kind of zealous way
are going to look at anything
that isn't within that vision.
You know, they've
got to look at scans.
They've got to look at, you,
saying that really weird,
or that's a charlatan.
>> My oncologist, the
radiologist, the MRI guy,
everybody we talked to said,
you know, he's a quack.
You can't do-- you can't--
you should not do that.
I mean, he's dangerous.
And we basically said,
well, we did our research,
and this is what we want to
do, and you can't do anything
for me, so why not?
>> Well, it's not good.
It's not smart.
It's a fake.
It's a scam.
He's going to take your
money, and you're not
going to get anything.
I mean, it was
everything that you'd
hear from someone that didn't
know anything about it,
but really didn't want to do it.
But they weren't in the
position that we were in.
>> It didn't seem that they
had any facts and figures
and concrete evidence
to debunk him.
>> Good point.
>> It was just maybe
what they had heard?
>> One doctor told Susan, if you
were my sister and you wanted
to go to Dr. Burzynski's clinic,
I would stand on the runway
in front of the airplane to
keep you from flying to Houston.
He got a little
dramatic about it.
I got pretty thoroughly
annoyed with some
of these doctors
who would tell me,
he's a crook, a
quack, a charlatan.
He's never really cured anybody.
And I would ask them,
how do you know this?
Well, it's just what I've heard.
So I would say to them, if
you think you're a scientist,
how can you go based on
just what you've heard?
>> If Dr. Burzynski's
treatment is so effective,
and so many of his
patients say that it is,
why then is it not used
here, at M.D. Anderson,
one of the nation's
leading cancer hospitals?
Simple, say doctors here.
It doesn't cure cancer.
>> Well, I don't have any
evidence, that's for certain.
>> Dr. Maurie Markman is head
of research at M.D. Anderson.
>> His claims have certainly not
reached the level of acceptance
in the medical community.
>> He says there could be lots
of explanations why certain
patients recover, but to say
it's because of Burzynski's
treatment?
You can't say that, he says.
And if there was such proof--
If it worked, you'd
be all over it?
>> Absolutely.
>> But Dr. Burzynski thinks
there may be something else
at work.
Big institutions may not like
being upstaged by an outsider.
The doctor at M.D.
Anderson disagrees.
>> We've actually asked the
endocrinologist at MD Anderson
about Dr. Burzynski, and
he told us he was a quack,
and that there was no
evidence that that worked.
But at that point,
it was like, well,
yours doesn't
really work either.
>> You know, I looked at
it like, well, you know,
if she's got approximately
nine months to live,
then we come over here, and
we don't have all the side
effects, well, in
nine months' time,
which am I going to
be better off doing,
if the ending
result is the same?
>> I think what is
amazing is that Dr.
Burzynski has had a vision and
a passion and a zeal for 40 odd
years.
Put up with being
called everything
short of and probably even
including witch doctor because
of his firm belief that he
can save people's lives.
And what that says about
his character and just
the fiber of his backbone,
to be willing to take that on
and to be alive and
recognized when it happens.
I mean, there are many times in
history where great inventors,
you know, the inventor
has basically died or was
impoverished before
they had a chance
to see the fruition of
that great invention.
And he's got a
chance of doing that.
>> In 1840, Ignza Semmelweis,
an Austrian obstetrician,
noted that over 20%--
that's one out of five--
women giving birth
in the hospital died four to six
days later of puerperal fever.
These women were then autopsied
in the basement of a hospital.
And the doctors who performed
these autopsies wore no gloves.
Can you imagine that?
Believe it or not, they
would leave the autopsy room
and go straight to
the delivery room
to assist other births without
even washing their hands.
Then Dr. Semmelweis' good
friend and fellow physician
accidentally cut his finger
while he was doing an autopsy.
In six days, this doctor
died with the same signs
and symptoms of puerperal fever.
All of a sudden,
Semmelweis knew.
He realized that the doctors
were transferring the disease
from the autopsy room
to the delivery room,
and he urged his colleagues
to simply wash their hands.
For this unforgivable
sacrilege, he was drummed out
of the medical profession, and
he died in an insane asylum.
Now today, we have the same
kind of arrogant commitment
to belief.
But with cancer treatment, we
have a trillion dollar business
built on those beliefs.
So if you think
Semmelweis had a problem,
just imagine the problem
Dr. Burzynski faces.
There was no money
involved in hand-washing
versus non hand-washing.
>> Dr. Sawanobori wants to
figure out how the clinic
administers antineoplastons
in targeted gene therapy.
Dr. Burzynski has been
working with doctors in Japan
for years.
In fact, it was evidence
from patients in Japan
that convinced the FDA here
to allow earlier studies
and stage two trials.
>> His method is a very safe
and also very effective.
So I'm sure that this is the new
strategy of cancer treatment.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> They did the MRI and
discovered it was a brain stem
glioma.
And they explained
that hers was diffuse,
where it was like
the healthy tissue
and the cancerous tissue
were swirled together.
So of course, surgery
wasn't an option.
And with the radiation,
they suggested
her prognosis was probably going
to be about eight to 18 months.
>> The thing is
with the radiation,
what it would do to you from
what I understood was they
would shoot the beam
through your ears,
and the beam would burn your
healthy and your cancer cells
outside in.
So all your hair around
your ears would be gone,
never grow back, your ears
would become deformed and burnt,
you would become deaf
because you couldn't hear.
It would also destroy
your pituitary gland,
which is the gland that helps
you grow as you hit puberty.
>> Yeah, she was 11 at the time,
and that was a real concern I
had.
>> And it'd make you stay
in an 11-year-old body,
and basically, in the end, you'd
become in a vegetative state,
where you couldn't
take care of yourself,
which wasn't a very good
quality of life in the end.
>> Because my big concern was
with the oncologist originally
that we were dealing with was
how it was going to affect her
development.
And when she started to
enter the teenage years,
starting a period, and
growing and developing,
and he just looked
at me and he said,
well, frankly,
Mrs. Ressel, she's
not going to live that long.
>> What she would have to go
through in those extra months,
that will be horrible.
I wouldn't want
to go through it.
Why do it?
>> You're handed the
death sentence anyway,
so what was the point
of the radiation?
>> Then, you have to say, OK,
modern medicine doesn't have
an answer.
Let's find our own.
>> When you look at what
is going on and how Dr.
Burzynski is being handled,
it is clearly a function
of anytime you have big
business, big government,
big labor, big pharma, big
cancer industry, whatever,
they become so wrapped up in
protecting the institution,
whatever it is, that they forget
what their fundamental job is.
And what's happened with
big pharma and big cancer
is they've forgotten to be
curious about that there might
be other opportunities
and options out there,
and they're focused on
protecting their turf.
>> Due to this reality, combined
with the continued failed
efforts of state and federal
agencies in their attempts
to stop Burzynski from
continuing to treat patients
and expand his research, special
interest groups have since
launched a relentless
propaganda campaign against Dr.
Burzynski and his supporters
and patients in hopes that this
game-changing innovation
never reach the open market.
And here's why.
While most would assume
that a breakthrough cancer
treatment of this magnitude
would be widely celebrated
by the industry and
encouraged for no other reason
than its monetary worth,
when one applies the logic
and reason of the scientific
method to this idea,
this theory has no
foundation or basis in fact.
The primary reason that
the cancer industry
and its regulatory agencies fear
the approval of antineoplastons
is purely economical.
If antineoplastons
were FDA-approved
for just one cancer type,
even the smallest and obscure
of cancer types, like brain
stem tumors in children, where
antineoplastons hold the
first cures in medical history
but only a afflicts a
few children per year,
this would mean that
anyone of any age
diagnosed with any
type of cancer,
like breast, lung, or
liver, could legally
insist their
oncologist provide them
with antineoplastons off label.
Given the gentle and nontoxic
nature of these medications,
most reasonable
people would begin
to opt for antineoplastons
as a first line of defense
against their cancer
instead of first choosing
the outdated modalities
of toxic, life-threatening
chemotherapy and radiation.
Since approximately 40%
of all men and women
will develop cancer
in their lifetimes,
the FDA approval of
antineoplastons on any level
will reap financial devastation
to the medical industry
and could send Wall Street
into a downward spiral.
Additionally, since these
patented medications
have been in FDA clinical
testing for more than 20 years,
theoretically, the
patents have expired.
But technically, they are
still partially protected
due to being in the limbo
of FDA clinical trials.
Once antineoplastons are
FDA-approved for market,
the entity owning
their patents rights
will only have up to seven
years of cornering the cancer
treatment market before
these medications devolve
into a generic drug.
Once they become generic,
like the antibiotic,
their prices will
plummet indefinitely,
allowing any global drug
company to produce and sell
antineoplastons,
effectively destroying
the current high profit paradigm
that the cancer industry has
relied on for more
than 40 years.
Due to this stark reality,
special interest groups
are making every
possible attempt
to derail the approval
of antineoplastons,
demonize their inventor,
while relentlessly trying
to confuse the public about
the truth of this story
and the invention of
antineoplastons themselves.
The primary weapon in
this deceitful propaganda
is what is defined as
an Astroturf campaign.
>> What is Astroturf?
It's a perversion of grass
roots, as in fake grass roots.
Astroturf is when
political, corporate,
or other special interests
disguise themselves,
and publish blogs, start
Facebook and Twitter accounts,
publish ads, letters
to the editor,
or simply post comments
online to try to fool you
into thinking an independent
or grassroots movement is
speaking.
The whole point of
Astroturf is to try
to give the impression
there's widespread
support for or against an
agenda when there's not.
Astroturf seeks
to manipulate you
into changing your opinion
by making you feel as if you
are an outlier when you're not.
A carefully
constructed narrative
by unseen special
interests designed
to manipulate your opinion.
A Truman Show-esque alternate
reality all around you.
Complacency in the
news media combined
with incredibly powerful
propaganda and publicity
forces mean we sometimes
get little of the truth.
Special interests have
unlimited time and money
to figure out new ways to spin
us while cloaking their role.
Surreptitious Astroturf
methods are now
more important to
these interests
than traditional
lobbying of Congress.
There's an entire industry
built around it in Washington.
Astroturfers seek
to controversialize
those who disagree with them.
They attack news organizations
that publish stories
they don't like, whistleblowers
who tell the truth,
politicians who dare to
ask the tough questions,
and journalists who
have the audacity
to report on all of it.
Sometimes, Astroturfers simply
shove intentionally so much
confusing and conflicting
information into the mix,
that you're left to
throw up your hands
and disregard all of
it, including the truth.
Drown out a link between a
medicine and a harmful side
effect, say vaccines
and autism, by throwing
a bunch of conflicting paid for
studies, surveys, and experts
into the mix, confusing the
truth beyond recognition.
And then there's Wikipedia,
Astroturf's dream come true.
Billed as the free encyclopedia
that anyone can edit,
the reality you can't
be more different.
Anonymous Wikipedia editors
control and co-opt pages
on behalf of special interests.
They forbid and reverse edits
that go against their agenda.
They skew and delete
information in blatant violation
of Wikipedia's own established
policies with impunity,
always superior to the poor
schlubs who actually believe
anyone could edit
Wikipedia, only
to discover they're barred from
correcting even the simplest
factual inaccuracies.
Try adding a footnoted
fact or correcting
a fact error on one of these
monitored Wikipedia pages,
and poof, sometimes within
a matter of seconds,
you'll find your
edit is reversed.
In 2012, famed
author Philip Roth
tried to correct a major
fact about the inspiration
behind one of his
book characters
cited on a Wikipedia page.
But no matter how hard he
tried, Wikipedia's editors
wouldn't allow it.
They kept reverting the edits
back to the false information.
When Roth finally
reached a person
at Wikipedia, which
was no easy task,
and tried to find out
what was going wrong,
they told him he simply was not
considered a credible source
on himself.
A few weeks later, there
was a huge scandal when
Wikipedia officials got
caught offering a PR service,
the skewed and edited
information on behalf of
paid, publicity seeking
clients in utter opposition
to Wikipedia's suppose policies.
All of this may be why,
when a medical study looked
at medical conditions
described in Wikipedia pages
and compared it to actual
peer-reviewed published
research, Wikipedia contradicted
medical research 90%
of the time.
You may never fully trust what
you read on Wikipedia again,
nor should you.
>> This anti-Burzynski
propaganda campaign began
in November of 2011
with ScienceBlogs,
which nearly went under after
accepting paid propaganda
messages masked as editorials
by corporate giant PepsiCo,
as well as
science-based medicine,
which in turn spawned the
website "The Houston Cancer
Quack," under the guise of an
AstroTurf organization called
"The Skeptics for the
Protection of Cancer Patients."
After this bogus
group was established,
they opened Facebook
pages, Twitter accounts,
blog incessantly,
start petitions,
even comparing Burzynski's
FDA sanctions activities
to the infamous Tuskegee
experiment, where
doctors intentionally
gave scores
of African-Americans syphilis.
This group also
launched a grossly
deceiving and
manipulative website
called "The OTHER
Burzynski Patient
Group," which consists of a list
of unconfirmed former patients
allegedly treated by
Burzynski organization
who allegedly died
under its care,
without providing the
unsuspecting reader full names
or sources.
This effort was created to
usurp a legitimate organization
called The Burzynski Patient
Group, which has been
in existence since the 1990s.
This group also bombards the
FDA and the Texas Medical
Board with petitions,
e-mails, and phone calls
accusing those agencies of not
doing their job in stopping
the Burzynski Clinic and the
Burzynski Research Institute
from continuing to operate.
This group has also
managed to fool
unsuspecting members of
the mainstream press,
like Liz Szabo of "USA Today."
After they assembled all of
these propaganda components
on their chessboard, they then
deleted the Stanislaw Burzynski
and antineoplastons
Wikipedia pages
and consolidated them into
a single Burzynski Clinic
Wikipedia page that
they exclusively
control by linking
to the articles
by members of the press
they've manipulated,
linking to their own blog posts,
while also leaving commentary
on PubMed pretending to be
medical experts and reviewers,
and then deviously use their
own fraudulent medical review
commentary as Wikipedia sources
to give the illusion that there
is overwhelming
opposition to the safety
and efficacy of antineoplastons.
This group has also
infiltrated and manipulated
a global group that calls
themselves "The Skeptics,"
a group that ironically
promotes critical thinking
and the scientific method.
The following is
what happens when
an unsuspecting,
card-carrying skeptic who's
had the wool pulled over his
eyes by this devious group,
is confronted with fact.
>> And this has been going on
for 35 years with no published
results--
>> That's absolutely untrue.
>> In a peer-reviewed journal.
>> That is absolutely untrue.
You guys, because
you haven't read it,
you take the position
that it doesn't exist.
>> Where have those--
>> Let's meet for lunch one day.
I'll pay.
I'll buy you lunch.
And I'll bring you all of
the published peer-reviewed
clinical data.
>> I would love to see it.
>> OK.
But I have to say, from
where I'm coming from,
I've done a lot of research.
I haven't found
anything other than--
>> Where did you
do your research?
Where did you do your research?
>> You can look on Medline.
You can look on PubMed.
You can search.
I mean, you can
search Burzynski.
You can search antineoplastons.
>> Have you ever have you
ever talked to Dr. Burzynski?
Have you ever been to Houston?
Have you ever gone
to the clinic?
Wouldn't you say that it would
be a much more effective way,
and a much better way of getting
at the truth of what's going on
if you go and talk to him?
>> No.
Because I haven't talked
to every single person
in the world who I've
ever heard something
that I have researched
and found to be false.
I mean, you don't necessarily
believe in unicorns.
>> I have been contacted by
numerous people, if not dozens,
at this point of a lot of people
that have been personally hurt
by what you guys are doing.
>> Well, one thing I could
tell you for certain--
>> I'm telling you
now, it's not right.
You're not doing a
morally good thing,
and you're hurting people.
And people may die as a
result of what you're doing.
And you think you're saving
people, but you're not.
>> And this is what happens
when a legitimate member
of the skeptic community
finds out what these Astroturf
imposters have maliciously
done in their name.
>> This film was great.
I don't have a question, but
I think that one of the people
can respond.
I happen to be the head
Skeptic in Orange County,
and I think that this
film negatively reflects
what Skeptics are all about.
I agree with everything in this
film because it's been tested.
It's been tested in
different countries.
So I want you to respond on--
I know that there
was a Skeptic that
was introduced in your film,
which I am appalled by,
being a Skeptic myself.
I operate on promoting science.
I have Skeptics' groups, and I
have over one thousand people
in my group in Orange County.
And I think that I am going
recommend this movie to all
them.
[APPLAUSE]
>> History hasn't changed much.
Scientific fact continues
to be often based
not on science or peer
review, but the projected
illusion and manufacturing of
a perceived majority consensus.
>> Ooh, in surprise and alarm.
>> Oh you mean sort of--
>> Ah!
>> Otherwise known
as pseudoscience,
the very idea this opposition
vehemently pretends to oppose.
>> So it's August 26, 2015.
>> Yes.
>> The last time I saw
you guys was in 2012.
>> We've definitely
come a long way.
We got married last year, so.
And that wasn't something that--
>> That we ever
thought we'd be doing.
>> Well, I never thought
I'd get married, first off.
But obviously, with
what happened to Hannah
and her prognosis, that
looked like it would never
happen either.
Yeah, it's a miracle, you know?
And we've just done
everything we can
to get on and enjoy our life.
>> Yes!
>> And Dr. Burzynsk's
treatment saved her life.
People can think what
they want, you know,
because a lot of people
think that Dr. Burzynski is,
I don't know, a fraud, a
charlatan, a crook, or whatever
they want to think.
One thing in life,
you should always
try and respect the beliefs
that other people have.
But it's very hard to
respect the beliefs of people
who really want to see this
guy just cleared out, stamped
out, killed, or not
killed but, you know,
professionally killed.
What I've seen along the way--
because I've kind of kept
all of this away from
her, and I didn't
want her to see how much
hatred there is for this guy.
And I know he's
being taken again
by the Texas Medical Board,
what, for the third time.
Twice by the FDA.
When's it ever going to stop?
But I remember Dr. Burzynski
saying something to me.
I said, why do you
keep doing this?
You know?
And he said, I have to.
I have to keep going.
He said, but I probably won't
get recognized for this work
until I'm dead.
And you know, there
isn't a day goes
by when I don't think
how lucky we are,
about how it scares the
crap outta me that there
are a lot of people who might
never get this treatment,
and there's a lot
of people who are
convinced absolutely 100% that
this treatment doesn't work.
She was accepted on a
Phase II clinical trial.
It worked.
And she's trying to get on with
her life as best as she can.
Whereas for me, it's a
little bit different,
because I feel a
massive debt to him.
And I get contacted probably
every two or three weeks
by someone with a brain tumor
asking me for help and advice.
And we want to say thank
you, obviously, to you,
Eric, because if you
hadn't have made this film,
I probably never would have
found out about the treatment.
I want to say a massive thank
you to Dr. Burzynski, and all
of the people in his
clinic because they went
to great lengths to help us.
This treatment didn't
work for everyone,
but it definitely
worked for some people.
We spent seven weeks
at that clinic.
>> Hi, Daddy.
>> Hello, how are you?
>> Yeah, I'm sorry
for ringing so late.
>> That's all right.
>> But I'm ringing with
really, really good news.
>> Good.
That's what I want to hear.
>> Go on.
You tell.
>> No, you tell him.
>> I don't think I can.
>> Just tell me.
Come on.
>> My tumor has
already shrunk by 10%.
>> Fucking hell, man.
That is absolutely amazing.
>> And when I tried to talk
to some of these people,
some of the other doctors,
none of the doctors who treated
Hannah, the oncologists,
none of them are interested
in the fact--
five years, she's
nearly now five years.
Which means what?
In cancer treatment, that
means you're cured, right?
>> Yeah.
>> Thinking, you may die.
But anyway, but it's
just such a crazy world.
You know?
Such a crazy world,
because there
are people out there all over
the world who could really--
this treatment could
save their lives,
and they'll probably
never ever ever get it.
You know, the other thing
is, which a lot of people
don't know, this Japanese
paper, this Japanese data
was a Phase II independent
randomized trial.
And that's what so many
people wanted to see.
But it's just so easy
to say, oh, no, no.
Push it away.
But because the study
wasn't very big,
and they put the words
in it that basically
say it wasn't a
big enough number,
people just disregard it.
It's like toilet paper.
>> I'd love to see it
all over and done with.
You know?
The drug approved.
Just him--
>> Him getting the
recognition that he deserves.
So yeah, hopefully there
will be a third movie.
And who knows?
Maybe there will be a
happy ending to this,
that this drug gets approved.
>> Two years ago, we finished
our Phase II clinical trial
problem.
We finished successfully
14 Phase II clinical trials
under FDA supervision,
which proved not only
increased the response
rate according
to the protocol, which means
there was a proof of efficacy
coming from Phase
II clinical trials,
and the proof that the
treatment is well-tolerated.
So basically, after we finished
clinical trial program here
in the United States, and
after our Japanese colleagues
reported exciting data in the
treatment of colorectal cancer,
which spread to the liver by
randomized controlled clinical
trials, which shows
doubling long-term survival
in such patients,
we found ourselves
under horrible harassment
by the regulatory agencies
and by people who are
hired by our adversaries.
Then the last stage of quote,
unquote "war" against us
started.
We are exposed to one of
the longest in the history
inspection by the FDA, which
lasted almost three months.
Then after we are able to sort
out the issues with the FDA,
and FDA gave us green
light to proceed
with additional clinical
trials and move forward
with the approval
process, we are furiously
attacked by Texas
Medical Board based
on some frivolous charges.
We had ordered by Internal
Revenue Service, or IRS.
We have also submitted to audit
by Securities and Exchange
Agency.
And these things, obviously,
we have nothing against.
But it cost a lot of time,
and it cost a lot of money
to get out of this, except
for Texas Medical Board, which
continued to harass
us, and clearly would
like to destroy our clinic, they
would like to close our clinic.
Started litigation
of me personally,
and oncologist and
the other doctors
who are working for our clinic.
Simply, their action is aimed
to destroy our activities.
And they would to harass--
to do it quickly,
because they realize
that we are very close
to a final approval
of our medication.
For some reason, they don't
want to have cure of cancer.
>> It's almost like a cancer
industrial complex now.
And it just is heart wrenching.
>> I think most people think
that they're just going to wake
up one morning and find a
headline in the newspaper, hey,
we just found a cure for cancer.
That it's something that
is going to be discovered
by the pharmaceutical industry.
And it's obvious to me
after watching the Burzynski
first film and
doing the research
that I've done that there are
alternative therapies that
already exist that are
doing positive things.
And then when we have
government institutions that
use taxpayer dollars
that try to fight back
against this good that's
happening, it's mind blowing.
And I can't sit back and
allow that to happen.
>> I was told I
had a fatal cancer,
and that they would treat
me for a while with chemo
and radiation, but eventually,
I would die of the disease.
>> Did you die from the disease?
>> No.
I'm here today, and I'm healthy
and happy, and so grateful
to Dr. Burzynski.
>> Dr. Burzynski saved my life.
>> Do you believe you would be
alive without Dr. Burzynski?
>> I know I would not be.
>> But he's fighting the
good fight, I believe,
for a very good reason.
To me, that's the definition
of what a hero is.
So, of course, I'm going to
come out today and support
that hero, for sure.
>> I think it's a travesty that
a man is basically bound by his
own Hippocratic oath to look
after the patients is now being
tried for doing what
he was supposed to do.
And it calls for a lot of
people to stand up against this.
It's actually very sad, I
think, for me personally.
I think that a lot of people are
unaware of how bad this really
is.
I think that unless
we all stand up,
things aren't going
to get any better.
And it really puts the onus
back on us as a people.
Like, we've got
doctors that have
gone out and put their
lives, their families,
their careers on the line.
And Burzynski is one of
the best examples you
can find in the world of that.
And we as a people have to
stand for these doctors that
need our support, that need
a voice to stand for them
and say, the truth is,
and to be bold about it.
>> And I believe they should
be exposed to some type
of investigation to find
out why they did it,
and why they purposely, blindly
follow the orders of the people
who are behind, and who
tell them to destroy us.
This is something which
is a complete nonsense,
and which America
should investigate
because it should not happen.
Hopefully, this
will be explained,
and we'll be relieved
from this madness, which
is really hurting us
and hurting patients.
>> Well, I'm here, first
of all, because Dr.
Burzynski saved my life.
And also, I believe
that people have a right
to choose whatever
it is they want
to do for their medical health.
And that's our freedom
in this country.
But I'm mainly
here because I feel
like I owe Dr. Burzynski to
show people that what he does
is not quackery.
I was given two months
to live, and here I
am seven years later,
and I'm totally fine.
>> What type of cancer?
>> Breast.
I experienced breast cancer.
But I no longer experience any
cancer in my body whatsoever.
>> You know, my wife was dying.
We went to Texas Oncology.
They told her make time to die.
You have 60 days to live, or
we can give you serious chemo,
and maybe you'll live
one to two years.
And so we said, no,
we're not accepting that.
We looked around, and
we found Dr. Burzynski.
We went in, and he
gave us some hope.
He said, I'm not sure, but I
think we can turn this around.
And in 60 days, the cancer
that was in her lungs
and in her sternum, it was gone.
Just disappeared.
If you'd have seen the
x-ray she had on her lungs,
it was totally white.
60 days later we did
another x-ray, gone.
Nothing.
And what he discussed with us,
it just made perfect sense ,
that if you're not working for
the FDA or the drug companies,
there's a way to cure cancer.
>> I'm 25 years old at
the end of the month,
and there's been a cure
for cancer that long.
Plain and simple.